The killer,
I discovered, was the same person who had murdered Mrs. Laura Lyons,
her husband, and her sister. It was Mrs. Laura Lyons, my
acquaintance, who was alive and well at the time of the
murder. It was important that the murderer should be found.
The same considerations also applied to the discovery that
the murderer was a young man with a formidable
criminal record. A good deal of the evidence was introduced
into the case, but it was the little matter of the
shadow which convinced me, and it was through the
explanation of that which he had alluded to that
evidence which gave conviction to the little man. The
crime was premeditated, the preparation complete, the
fact of the crime was proved, and the sentence of death was
executed upon Mr. Orlando. For those reasons the commutation
of the death sentence was rendered final, and the case was
closed."

"Thanking you, Holmes."

"I am glad that you have been fortunate enough to be of service to us.
It is an unfortunate thing for me that I do not know your
name, for I should be inclined to know it, but it is all the
same an immense reward for my services, and I could not imagine
that any reward would be more valuable than the consideration
which I have just mentioned. I am, in truth, a professional
man of letters, but I have long been averse to calling myself a
professional, for I have no idea what it would be like to be the
manager of a small business. It would be a good start, and it
would be a splendid break from the monotony of daily life. If
my name were not Orlando, it would be Holmes, and that would be
all right, as long as I could write as well as he could. But,
honesay or no honesay, my name, Orlando, is Orlando, and that is
all right also. That is my business, and that is my name, and that is
all right, too, as long as it is "O. Orlando." Now, Mr. Holmes, you have
been in the business long enough, and you know."

"It has been a very lucrative business."

"Very profitable. It is a well-known fact that a small newspaper
can make a handsome sum out of a year's work. I have made about two-and-twenty
thousand pounds in the course of my professional career. Now, Mr.