As i woke up i could see the island come into the dawn.
The blackness made me feel that the shore was
covering an awful flood.  I stood still and listened.

"There," said the captain, "is the man with the leg."

I stood and listened.  The captain said:

"Here is the man with the leg, I suppose."

"Well," said I, "that's all very well.  Good day, all is well."

In fact, it was only a light rain and the sea was still.

After some time I heard a great noise and I jumped to the shore.  The
land was covered with the footprints of some of the dogs who had run off
with the man with the leg.  Once upon the shore, I saw a little boat
towards me, but it was not long before we came to a halt.

"Hurry," said the captain, "let us come and see what is the matter with us."

"Captain, Captain!" cried I, "let us speed ahead, for we are
going to see if we can get any news from the crew."

"Captain!" cried the captain.  "Captain!" cried the captain again.

I followed his orders, and I was about to go to the island when I
heard a great noise as of a ship approaching.  I looked round and
saw the island covered with the footprints of the dogs, and the
land was covered with their tracks and their tracks were
still there.  I looked about me and saw no one in view.

"Captain," cried I, "we must hurry!"

The captain said:

"We are coming back!"

"Captain," said I, "we must hurry!"

"What are you talking about?" said the captain.  "Go on."

I went on, and the captain let me go.  He said:

"Captain, we have got the signal.  We must hurry!"

"We must hurry!" cried I, "however!"

The captain said:

"I think we have got it."

"You think we have?"

"I think we have."

"What about you thinks so?"

"I think we have."

"Well, then, we must hurry!"

I did as the captain commanded.  We started and let the dogs go, and as
we came to the island we stopped.  We looked about us and there were
no more dogs to see, but we were still about five or six miles
north of the cape.

The dog tracks were gone, but the footprints were still there.  We
then looked about the island, and the fox was gone.  We looked like
the cannibals we were, and the dog tracks were gone, but the fox
was not.  We looked about the island, and the fox was gone.  We
then looked toward the cape, and the fox was gone.  We looked
about the island, and the fox was gone.

Well, now we looked through the island–the fox was gone, and the fox
could not be seen.  The sight of the fox drew our eyes back, and we
saw that the island was covered with the tracks of the dogs.

"Captain, tell me where the other dog tracks are," said I.

"Sir!" said the captain, "they will tell you."

The dog tracks were still there, but the fox was gone.  We looked
around to see if we could find the fox, but the fox was gone.

Well, now we looked around to see if we could find the fox, but the
fox was gone.

"Captain, tell me where the other dog tracks are," said I.

"Sir!" said the captain, "they will tell you."

The dog tracks were still there, but the fox was gone.