There was a grapeyard
and a meadow, each of them dotted with an oak or maple
tree, but none of them so abundant as the other. A
grapefruit bush was reaching for the air, and the air
was filled with the sound of the clinking feet. I
held my breathless eyes in front of me, and yet I could not
shallove away the vague, disquieting feeling that I was
alone.

I am not a child, and I know that it is all very well to be in
the world, but I am not a peasant either. I speak
English, and I am not under the impression that my companion
has never heard me.

I looked up, and there in the face of a thousand eyes was a
kids’ face painted in an unknown ink and ink. I
looked up sharply, and the boy was smiling with a
smile that could not be described. I had no hesitation in
asking, ‘How’s it?’ to which I replied, ‘Good.’

I ran up on him, and he ran to me, clasping my hand in
wonder.

“I’ve got you,” he said.

“What’s this?” I cried, surprised.

He laughed, hard, and then, smiling, “I want to know what you
do.”

I laughed, but he laughed back, a little too hard. After
once more I drew back and looked at him.

“What’s this?”

He looked at me, and then his face fell.

“I don’t know,” he said. “I’ve never seen a face like yours.
It’s like a picture in a book.”

I laughed again.

“No, it’s different, it’s lovely.”

He stopped dead.

“I can see why you like it.”

“I don’t know,” I said. “I don’t. It’s like a picture in a
book, but it’s not like a picture.”

He looked at me, and then at the boy.

“You’re a fool, my dear fellow. I know it, you’re a fool. But,
now, I guess I’ve seen too much of the world, and I’m not so sure
that I want to be.”

He looked at me.

“And now I’m going to tell you all,” he said.

I laughed.

“Oh, poor boy!”

The boy laughed.

“If I can only do it, I shall be able to help you more than once.
Well, now, I’ll do it.”

He pulled a mirror from his pocket.

“Look at my face,” he said.

Then he looked at me.

“I am your friend,” he said.

I could not speak. I saw a spark of red in his eyes. He
shook his head.

“I am your friend,” he said.

He drew back his hand.

“You must not touch me.”

I saw white teeth against the mirror and a hint of a
sharp pain. I recognized the flush of his face. I recognized
the girl’s. I recognized the boy’s.

It was the girl who had suffered so grievously.

I saw the girl in the mirror. She was in a white cotton and
leather jacket, with frayed sleeves and a dull blue
flannel cap. Her eyes were clear and left no doubt as to her
identity. But there was something else—something
far more sinister and extraordinary. I recognized it, but
I could not place where it came from. I recognized
it, but I could not place its source.

I must know.

There was the scar, there the murder. The face, the eyes, the
flesh. It was all you. It was all you.

I felt myself falling. I fell on the floor. I was conscious at
once of an enormous shock. My brain was working, but it was
still in a dream. I felt I was falling, and I felt a
piercing pain in the head. I sat up.