There was a forested region in the west, and the sea was deep and dim,

“And yet,” said Alice, “no one was very sure that the rugged sea would
not carry her to some great discovery.”

“Well,” said the captain, “we will keep that in mind.”

“Well, now let us go back to our ship, for we must have got her
as far as the Horn, and she is to be carried to Calais.”

So they went back.

And then they had a good look at the sea, and all the time they were
talking on deck they were thinking of something else. I will take another
part of the day to think of that, for it is only a few minutes
in the morning. Alice, however, was thinking all the time, and could
not help thinking of something else. I wonder if she is not going to tell
us what she has seen, or if she is too afraid of telling us,
she said; and what she has seen, I suppose, is that the
road is wide open and the sea is so calm that it would take
me a long time to go by land, said the captain. So I will
make sure of that, and let us go down by the sea, for I am sure it will
be much easier.

They walked along the shore, and came to a large house, which was
quite empty. There, Alice thought to herself, there is no one at home
who would want to see me go down the river, and she went out to
wait for the captain.

She found that she was sitting on the bench at the foot of a tree,
facing the ocean. Theres no one in my place who would want to
see me go down the river, she thought to herself, so Ill go
down the hill, and wait for a little while before I go down the
hillbut Ill be back before Ive seen the sea.

And she waited.

When she came to the village, theres no one at home who would
want to see me go down the river, she thought to herself, so
Ill go down the hill, and wait for a little while before I go down
the hillbut Ill be back before Ive seen the sea. So she
went down the hill, and waited. Theres no one there who would
want to see me go down the river, she thought to herself, so Ill
wait for a little while before I go down the river, and Ill be
back before Ive seen the sea.

When she came to the village, theres no one there who would
want to see me go down the river, she thought to herself, so
Ill go down the hill, and wait for a little while before I go down
the hillbut Ill be back before Ive seen the sea.

At last she came to the house, and saw that it was empty. Theres no one
else in my place who would want to see me go down the river, she
thought to herself, so Ill go down the hill, and wait for a little while before I
go down the hillbut Ill be back before Ive seen the sea.

No, no, no, said the woman, well go down the hill and
wait till everybodys gone down the river.

Oh, thats all the way down the hill! said Alice."