I was standing in front of the dark cave under the shining stars,
and I was holding my peace. ‘He’s still there,’ I heard a woman say behind
me. ‘And he’s not gone,’ I heard a man say to a woman beside me.
‘He’s gone,’ I heard a voice say. I looked up, and it was
the man who had said, ‘He’s gone!’ And I saw him go down into the dark cave.

‘Let him in,’ I cried, ‘and let him in!’ The man was very grateful, and
said he would give me his wife’s oil.

The woman who had espied me said she would give me her oil, and the man
said he would give her his wife’s sacrifice. So they sat down to the
offerings, and I gave him the oil.

The woman used the oil to make her bed, and it was the same as she had
made before, but she made it in the dark, and the man was longing
for her. ‘You are very kind,’ he said to her, ‘but you must be
aware of me, and I will go and tell the king that I have come to
offer you my wife’s sacrifice.’ Then they both went away, and I was left
alone.

It was a very dark night, and I was very tired. I did not sleep
very well, so when I heard the voice of the king, I was very glad, and
felt very happy. As to the woman, she used the oil to make her bed, and
it was the same as she had made before, but she made it in the dark, and
the man was longing for her. ‘You are very kind,’ he exclaimed to her, ‘but
you must be aware of me, and I will go and tell the king that I have
come to offer you my wife’s sacrifice.’ Then they both went away, and I was
left alone.

We were going to embark at last in the morning, and I had a great
satisfaction all the way. The king’s wife was very kind to me, and I
did not even have to think of her, for I knew her. In the evening the king’s
wife came to me and said, ‘Good-bye, my lord, and may you be
always my husband.’ I knew that she would be very pleased to see me
go home, and I told her to follow me.

She did not like me very much, and asked me if I was her husband, and
whether we were married. ‘No, my lord, we are not,’ I answered, and
she said she would not tell me anything else about her husband.

The next morning we went up to the king’s castle and offered to come
with our bride to the king’s castle, for she had a very fine
wedding. The king’s wife was very pleased, and said she would give her
husband a gift of ivory bracelets, and a ring of gold, and said she
would give her husband my wife’s oil, and that she would give her husband
my wife’s sacrifice, and that she would give her husband my wife’s
gift, and that they would go together to the castle to make the wedding
cambric.

They went up, and the bride went with them. The groom and the bridegroom went
alone. The bride, all in black, was carried away by her beauty, and her
body filled with gold and jewels, and the bridegroom carried her off by
his own hand. The bridegroom said, ‘I am very rich, and I have a beautiful
wedding over on the banks of the river.’

When he and the bride came to the castle, the king’s wife was very
prudent in her choice, and said ‘I have made the best of it, and I
have given the best for the best of the kingdom.’