I was sitting on the log of wood which stands by the
salt water point, and at the sound of the steps of the man who came
to me, I felt a little of my courage return; I went to my
companion, and I asked him if he would go and see if the
conversation had gone to the right way. He went to the point of
the log, and looking at the sea, he said he would go and look
around, and if he could find a suitable place for me and my
companion to rest. We sat down, and I began to listen to the
whistling of the boat; but to my great astonishment I soon found that
while the boat was whistling along the river, the wind was changing
from a west-westerly wind to a east-sail wind. I said to my
companion that I would listen to what he heard, and if he could
find a place for us to lie down and sleep, I would follow him.
I listened, and at last, with much difficulty, I found a good
place for me and my friend: but as it was not so clear on the
other side of the river, I could not decide whether it was because the
wind was blowing towards us, or because I had followed the right
current, that we were so badly distressed.

Our boat was all but ruined, and our only hope of escape was to
wrestle our way through the river, and then find some place to
sleep.

The next morning, the sun rose at last, and we had a fair prospect of
retaining our way through the river: but we had been so long in
the dark that we had not lost all our time in trying to find a
place to sleep, and we had not even been long in considering what to
do. We had been down the road a good deal, and the darkness had
given us a very good idea of what to expect. We had been among the
crowd of the innkeeper's lady, and she had invited us to a
gentle social supper.

The only question was whether we would like it or not, and we could
not fail to think of something to do about it. We had been down the
road a good deal, and had not gone far before we had become quite tired
of the house. We had often remarked the happiness of the
crowd at the sight of the innkeeper's lady; but, as we had not
ever actually entered the inn, we had been very pretty
without, and looked as if they had been to her house for the
first time. We had heard the innkeeper speak of the old gentleman
who lived in the house, and how happy he was to see her
returned.

They had not, however, the chance of seeing the old gentleman, and
how glad they were to see her return, that they had been able to
help her to make a very good supper, and to make a most
obedient table. The old gentleman had a great liking for
the cook, and was very glad to see that she was again
in possession of it. He was very faithful, and was very fond
of his housekeeper. He had a large quantity of wine, and was
always very merry, and did not perhaps ever let his wine go
without it. The old gentleman never drank, nor did he ever let his
wine go without it.

As to the host, he had a very plain dry tongue, and would
not talk much. He had a very good set of eyes, and always
talked very low, and very quickly.

On our way we had passed by a house which was in the
first degree beautiful, and which was well lighted, and
proud of its house.

We were now about half a league from the capital, and we were
somewhat nearer to the city than we otherwise might have
believed. We had now only to wait for the signal from the
majesty, and our own signal would be sufficient.