The door creaked open, and a woman passed in,
looking down. This was a servant of a wealthy family, and she
looked upon the door as a vast success. She was the daughter of a
gentleman, and she had been married at the age of sixteen, and
had a son and many children. The son was a handsome young man,
with an easy manner and a gentle manner; his mother
was a very cheerful woman, and she allowed him to marry
and have children as he pleased.

The servant, on entering the room, saw the richly dressed woman, and
demanded her to permit him to be seated. She was dressed in
the most elegant apparel, and was clad in white, with a
lengthish skirt. She rose to invitation, and said she was a
friend of the richly dressed man, and invited him to sit
there.

The servant did so; and the richly dressed woman sat down at
the feet of a gentleman, who sat at one end of the chamber, and
the gentleman sat at the feet of the other. He did not appear
to be in any hurry to speak, but sat down beside the richly dressed woman,
and began to speak, as he had been accustomed to do in his
country, and he began to speak in a natural way. He said he was
in his thirty-fifth year, and died at a great age, and
was buried in a city called Kallstadt. The poor old lady
did not appear to notice his manner, but sat on the floor,
looking at the richly dressed woman, as she sat neither
on the carpet nor on the mantel, but sat and listened to what
the richly dressed man was saying.

The richly dressed man spoke of the death of his father, and
of the unhappy couple who had lived in the palace, and of the
fortune that followed their decease. He spoke of the fact that
they had been persecuted, and of the cruel chastisement that
had followed their decease, and of the death of their son. He
said that they were buried in a city called Kallstadt, and that
the poor old lady had given permission for the wretched old
man to visit her grave. The poor old lady had granted him
this permission, and had given the poor old man a short
interview of his visit. The poor old woman was in no hurry to
learn the truth, but sat and listened to what the richly dressed
man was saying.