As I stood there i could see that the
column was not a column at all, but was instead a typical
one-room hotel. It was four o'clock, and the room was empty.

My friend rose and looked around me.

“What is the good, then, of a column?”

“Nothing. I like a good column.”

I stared, disbelieving. He laughed.

“It is a column, you see?”

I shook my head.

“It is a column, you see?”

He laughed, and then, starting, he said in a hushed voice:

“It is a column,”

“Aha!”

“But a column is not a column. A column is simply a
shape. A horse-cart or a plane, for instance.”

“Aha!”

“Exactly. But a column is not a column, is that clear?”

“No,” I said.

He smiled.

“Then let us forget it, and see. We have brought the subject of
the poor fellow upon ourselves. I can assure you, Watson, that it
would be as well. He is a dead man, but he is alive.”

“But how?”

“How do you know that? There is no sign of violence.”

I did not know then that he was in actual fact dead. He had gone mad.
His face was all distorted and disfigured, and he had a limp and a
nosed arch of the neck. I saw the first faint signs of life when I
looked round me. A few moments later, however, I realized by a
slight tremor that I was staring at a dead man.

“My God!” I shouted. “He is dead!”

But Holmes held up a hand to stop me.

“I am afraid so,” he said, “and I am afraid. I am afraid of a
man like that, who has no regard for human life.”

I saw a first glance of horror.

“You are sure?” I asked.

“I am sure.”

“He is dead, then?”

“Dead, and at the same time—‘has disappeared.’ I have not had the
chance to make clear to him that we are men of action.”

“No, no, my dear fellow. He is alive.”

“But you have been with us, have you not?”

“Yes, for about two weeks I had been with you.”

“And I have no doubt that you are well aware of the danger
which he poses?”

“I am not a lawyer,” I answered.

“And yet, if you have been with us, it is because you have
a well-known practice in this city of extraordinary alacrity and
craftsmanship, not because you are a lawyer.”

“I am not a lawyer.”

“Then I am with you because I am a man of action.”

“But surely you would not be?”

“I am not a man of action. I am a man of my word.”

“But the man who has gone into the dead man’s vault is dead.
He can never be traced. He has disappeared.”

The words were so piercingly clear that I could not but be
astonished. To a man of action! And yet, to me, as a man of
action, he was always a phantom, a stranger to me, as a man of
action. I could not bring myself to address him. I
was in a dilemma. Have I to go out into the world and
renounce my own existence? Could I?

And then, suddenly, the brilliant light of a cigarette caught my eye.

The man was sitting cross-legged in the same spot where I had
found him, smoking a cigar. He was smiling the smile of a
man who knows that life is good.

“I am delighted to see you, Watson,” said Holmes,
“and I am glad to have the chance of associating myself
with so important a matter.