We saw the woman going in the direction of the station,

“I must go,” said he.

I perceived at once that he was indeed a man of the most
excellent character. He was tall, thin, and rather
skittish.

We had stopped when we were a good fifteen paces from the
station, so that the woman had a clear flight from us.

“You see,” he said, suddenly, and without any pretense of
knowing anything about the world or our own situation,
“You see that the woman here is a very unhappy woman. Her
husband is a notorious thief, and he has threatened her with
his pistol. You see how she has run away, and then——”

He paused.

“And then?”

He turned.

“You see that the man in the brown suit, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, is
in reality the most dangerous man in the world. He is in
the habit of committing robberies, and of being the most
masterful tools of the law. To the police, it is a
special case. But, if I can help it, it is a special
case also. The man in the brown suit, Mr. John Russell, is
actually the most likely to be the murderer.”

“And then, and also?”

“The woman in the brown suit, Mrs. Laura Lyons, is the most
possible accomplice. She would be a stranger to me, and she would
possibly be in the habit of betraying me.”

His voice was so grave that I sprang to his defense.

“You don’t mean to say that I could not find her, Anne?”

“No, no, no, that is only the most probable interpretation. You
have a better one in which you might find me, Mr. Holmes. I am in
the habit of maintaining a secret. I prefer to be called the
Clairvoyant, for I know so much.”

“I see no reason why you should not be able to find my wife,” said Holmes
pleading. “I am sorry to have interrupted you, Mr. Holmes, but I am
not in a position to discuss my affairs in any way.”

“Then we will resume our narrative. We turned in, and found her
still in our hotel. Mr. Sherlock Holmes had barely been away for
the day, and was waiting in the hall. When he saw us he asked
me what we were doing here. I told him that I had been at the
station, and that I had brought my wife with me. He then asked
me who I was.”

“Miss Mary Sutherland.”

“I came as a visitor.”

“Thank you. I am sorry to have interrupted you, Mr. Holmes, but I am
in a position to discuss my affairs in any way.”

“How about your wife?”

“Oh yes, she is fine.”

“I see no reason why you should not be able to find her,” said
Sherlock Holmes cold-ly. “I am sorry to have interrupted you, Mr. Holmes,
but I am in a position to discuss my affairs in any way.”

“How about the cheque?”

“No, I cannot give any away, Mr. Holmes.”

“Then you can confine yourself to applying your wit to
that which is beyond your particular competence, and we shall see
whether we shall be able to solve the problem.”

“I am prepared to do anything that may be necessary,” said
Holmes. “Pray continue your narrative, and we shall see what
results.”

He turned to the clock.

“It is five minutes past seven,” said he. “It is a matter
of minutes, or so, to our observations.