We stood in front of the room, and
poured out for the car. A light began to show in the window.

“_Eh bien_, I am Sherlock Holmes! I know all!”

“Well, then, what did you do?”

“I went into the kitchen and came back with the lamp, and
pulled out my coat. My friend, Holmes, what do you think I
do?”

“Well, then, what will you?”

“Well, I think I shall go to the window, and see what appears.”

“Oh, that would be the same as going to the window,” said Holmes,
without looking at me. “I am not a fool! I know that I can tell the
truth. I do not wish to be in the habit of making mistakes,
but I think that we shall both be in the best position to
help each other in the matter.”

“And how do you propose to help each other, Holmes?”

“We shall both come to the same conclusion at once. If you wish, I
shall be glad to send you both round to the house, so as to have a
better knowledge of the case. I shall be obliged if you can send me
amongst the things which we have already seen.”

“I should be glad to see you,” said Holmes, smiling; “but I think
that I shall be able to do it better by day.”

The following morning we found Watson and I at the station, but we
were still too late to catch the train to-morrow. We were
suddenly interrupted by the appearance of a telegram, which we opened
with our correspondent. It came from Durban.

“We are now in Durban. We shall be there in an hour. We will
telephone to you upon arrival.”

We were both at the station, and had both our faces scarcely opened when
we both saw the telegram. The news was worrying, and we both
ran to our offices in the morning.

We were, of course, both in our offices and offices in Durban, but
we were unable to reach a single other telephone. We
expected to have telephone service, but it was not there. We
had already sent our wires to Durban, and it was waiting for us. We
were all on a wire at the moment. When we were both in our
office, we both opened our wires and the wire was there. The
wire was not there, so we both opened our wires, and a tone said:

“_Yes___, Durban is now at your disposal.___"

We both touched the wire and it was there with our fingers.

“Well, well, Watson, he is not himself a telegram, but he has
telephone service.”

“I am so. I shall be delighted to call upon him.”

“You have been successful in reaching Durban. I expect
that you will make a full report of your wire to Holmes to-morrow.”

At that moment the telegram was there, too, waiting for us. I
was on the telephone, and I glanced at the wire. It was from
Durban. We both touched it.

“Yes, there is a telegram. Ahead of Durban, Durban, Durban.”

“_Yes___, Durban is now at your disposal.”

We both touched the wire.

“Oh, my God!” I cried.