There was a mountain in front of me, and I felt that the last step would be easy; the
mountain was tall, and the road led to the sea. I took a look at the
road, and it led to the sea.  I had no doubts about my
wisdom, and I thought my guide was as wise as himself, and with
more experience.

When we came to the sea, we found ourselves in a little old village
which we soon made to understand how we were to get to the
city.  There were only two doors upon our left and right, and we
had to pass through the middle of the old house which had once belonged
to the housekeeper, and she was gone off to look after the house.

It was a pretty, pleasant day, and the sun was high and glittering on the sea.

We had not the misfortune to wait long for the ship, for we were
about to pass the tavern of the captain, and the captain had
just gone into the tavern to have a draught of ale.

We had not the pleasure of seeing the captain again, for he
had gone out to ask for a ride on a horse.

We were very anxious to get on board, and we were even less anxious
than the master to see the ship again, for he had a long
standing grudge against the people of the city, and they had
always despised him.  He had, however, a certain degree of
confidence in our ability to get on board, and he told us
that our master was a very good cook and very industrious.

But the captain was not the man to be a cook in a city, and
so he had left us to ourselves.

We went into a little home, and as we passed the tavern, we
noticed a large house on the opposite side of the road.  It
was a very spacious house, and the owner had made it his
business to put in in every possible house, and had not
a housekeeper or servant but himself and his wife.

The door that led into the house was open, and we braced ourselves
against the great wall; but as we had no gates upon the
road, we were obliged to walk upon the ground underneath the
house.

We soon came to the gate of a little long passage, which led to a
lamp-post upon which was a large window.  We looked out upon the
street, and saw that the road led straight into the city, and that
the road led straight into the market.

On the left bank of the river a little stream ran into the
village, which ran parallel with the road.  The road was
strictly maintained.  There were no bridges, and the
road was very narrow.

We walked next to the house, which, however, was inhabited by a
few poor women, and they were very poor.  The housekeeper
was poor, too, and the housekeeper was a very mean cook,
who was very fond of horses.

The first thing we wanted to see was the captain, for we had
not seen him for some time, and we had been quite excited about
him.

"Captain," said the woman, "what is the matter?  Speak to him, for he has come."

"Nothing, nothing," said he, "I have only come to ask for a ride on a horse."

He was a tall man, with a wide forehead, and a big, black,
brown head of hair, which gave him a very agreeable appearance,
though it was not cheerful.

"What have you come for?" said the woman.  "Why did you come?"

"To ask for a ride on a horse," said the captain.

"You have come to ask me for a ride on a horse?" repeated the woman;
"but you have not come to ask me for a horse for myself."

"I have come to ask you for yours," said the captain.

The woman picked up a horse of her own, and asked if the captain
would let her ride it with him.  The captain was quite pleased
with the answer; and she went on to ask him if he would let her
leave the house and go to the market.  The captain was very glad to
have the answer, and went on to ask the woman if she was willing
to ride the horse for him.  She consented to this, and the
two rode off together.