I was alone in the house which was quiet, the spirits were gone and I was alone.

But I heard the sound of a gunshot, I was rushing from the window
and the bullets were running down the hall. I heard the
shooting of a pistol, I felt for my life, I felt for my life.
I opened the door, I saw a light and I had no form of
protection, I was sinking to the floor. I felt for my life
and saw death.

The last time I was conscious was when I was lying on the floor
of the mansion. I was lying on my back and a bullet had
struck me. I was near death, I was bleeding profusely and I was
about a hundred pounds of flesh was missing.

I was so badly wounded that I was unable to walk or move.
The bullet had pierced through my ribs and I was thrown
down and dying. I heard a noise, I heard the sound of a gun
and then I heard a strange voice. It took me by surprise and I
saw a man. The man said:

'Come out of the house you are in, you know what you are doing.
Come out of the house you are in, you know what you are doing.
You cannot leave the place you are in.'

I did not know what to say, I was frightened and could not
answer. I was thrown into a coffin, where I lay for nearly
two hours.

I was put in a coffin which was covered with a sheet and
I could not move. I could not speak, I could not move.

About ten hours after I had been put into the coffin, I was
returned to life. I was able to speak, but only to say that
the man had told me that I was in a coffin and that the man who
had come to take me away said that he was going to bury me
in the earth which was laid in the coffin.

I was buried in the earth which was buried in a vault
about two hundred feet beneath the earth which contained
my body.

My spirit did not return to me for two years. I was buried in
a vault about forty feet below the earth which contained
the remains of my body.

My spirit continued to live in the coffin for two years.

A strange thing happened to me the night the men came to look
out for me. I was dreaming, I awoke and found myself in the
casket. I could see a light, I could hear the sound of a gun, I
was conscious but unable to move. I was dead, I was buried in
the coffin.

The men came back to my house and told me that I was being buried
in a vault. I was conscious but could not move. They said that
they would try to find me out but that they could not do so
quickly. I was told that I was buried in a vault which contained
my body. I was conscious but unable to move. I was buried in
the coffin.

The men went back to the house but the men did not come back
to bury me. They were told to wait till I was dead. I woke
up and found that the coffin had been opened and I was lying
on the floor. The men were digging a hole in the earth which
they would be able to reach out into. I tried to move but I
was dead. I was buried in the coffin.

I had been buried in the coffin for two years, I was not able to move
or speak, I was buried in a coffin which was covered with a sheet
and I could not move. I was dying but I could not move.
The men were digging a hole in the earth which they would be able to
reach through. I tried to move but was dead.

The men were digging a hole in the earth which they would be able to
reach into. I tried to move but was still dead.

The men were digging a hole in the ground which they would be able to
reach through. I tried to move but was still dead.

The men were digging a hole which they would be able to reach out into
with their hands.