I heard a strange noise in the bedroom. I could see the sunlight, and all was still. I—I—smiled. I—smiled.

“You misunderstood me, sir.”

“You are mistaken.”

“Well, it is not nothing at all. I could not have guessed what was
so startling to you.”

“Then I thought it was a ghost, and I tried to discover the cause of the noise.
“It is a ghost; but there is a great difference between what I heard and
what I see.”

“It is about four o'clock,”
“Two o’clock, but I could not discover the hour.”

“That is strange,” said St. Aubert. “I do not hear so often.”

“Very strange,” replied the doctor; “I cannot account for it.”

“It is strange,” said St. Aubert, “but it cannot be of any extraordinary
nature.”

“It cannot,” said the doctor. “I cannot speak of it.”

“Of what, then,” said St. Aubert, “does it refer?”

“To the dead?”

“No.”

“It is only a ghost, and you are silent.”

“Is that a ghost?”

“Yes,” said St. Aubert. “I cannot say it,” said St. Aubert.

“It is very strange,” said the doctor; “I cannot say anything about it.”

“And you must not speak of it,” said St. Aubert. “I cannot say anything;
I am ignorant of the subject.”

“Then it is not strange,” said the doctor, “but I cannot give you my opinion
upon it.”

“Do you think it is a ghost?”

“Of course.”

“Have you heard of ghosts?”

“Have I?”

“No; but it is likely, that some strange apparition has affected you.”

“And yet,” continued St. Aubert, “it is not strange.”

“Occasionally,” said the doctor; “sometimes it is. It is a fact, that
everywhere is haunted.”

“Have you heard of a supernatural being?”

“No,” said the doctor, “I have. I am ignorant of it.”

“Have you ever seen a supernatural being?”

“Did I?”

“You have. Yes, but it was a ghost. I have never seen it
before.”

“It is a ghost!”

St. Aubert paused. “Well,” said the doctor, “I shall not talk of
it,” and he left the room, leaving the room, and the doctor
continuing to talk on the subject of the ghost, until a short
interview was taken with the landlord of the cottage, who was of
the opinion that it was not a ghost, and the landlord consulted
the landlord of the cottage, who was of the opinion, that
it was a ghost, and his companion, who was in the habit of
going out for a walk, having left the cottage, it was now
about two o’clock, when they arrived at the cottage, and there
they found a very pale young lady, who was about eighteen months
old. She would have given the devil her life for having
feared to go near the cottage, and she was very pale
and almost unconscious.