I was sitting on the bench, smiling, when I suddenly heard the steps descending the passage, and saw a tall, dark man in a dark suit walk to and fro in front of a small door. I stopped smiling, for I thought that it was the porter, but at the same time I was conscious of something more. I stood there for a moment, and then, with a cry, I ran up and tore the door wide open.

The man stepped through, and it was Holmes who I saw. He was a large man, with a large head and a large
big, fat face, with a large pair of wicked eyes. He was dressed in a casual
manner which showed that he was more likely to be in the habit of dressing in
a very formal manner than to be in a sitting position with his hands in his
pockets. His coat was of a very plain design, and his trousers were of a
collared sort, but his boots were high-heeled and pointed, and he wore
a black frock-coat over a pair of dark trousers, with the sleeves rolled up
and the front looked a little over the shoulders. He spoke a little
English, and was about middle-aged, with a small head, which
was sufficiently large for a man of his stature, but not so large as to
give him the appearance of being a woman. He wore a light
frock-coat, with a collar that was cut very close over the ears,
and a pair of high-heeled sandals. He spoke a little
English, and had on light blue clothing which showed that he had been
to London.

Holmes rushed up and ran to the door. I was very much surprised to see that
he was carrying a small box in his hand. He ran towards it, and
looked around in astonishment, as though there were something amiss.

"I thought it was the house-keeper," said he. "I thought I was
invited to come in."

"The man in the shed is in the habit of coming in around
hours," said Holmes. "The door is open. You must allow him
to pass."

"Thank you," said Holmes. "But I thought I was going to ask you
if you would allow me to come in?"

"No, Sir Henry."

"Then I must ask you again."

"Certainly, Watson, I think that you would do well to do so. But for
the present I must go out as quietly as possible.