I was looking at the distant hillside where the
mountains met the sea, and the broad blue sky
hung low over the horizon. I was not in a hurry, for I had a good
resting-place; and I was tired of walking along at my own pace.

I was not accustomed to such a state of things on a wide and open
land. It was the beginning of the season of growing dark, and the
morning light in the paddling-boat was so dim that I could
only see the steep hills and the distant sea, which seemed to
be in my direction.

Suddenly, I felt my feet start on the ground, and my eyes
resolved themselves upon a bright and friendly face. I had never
seen that face before, and I had not thought of it much since. I
seemed to be about fifteen or sixteen years of age, and I had
no hair, no beard, or any other distinguishing mark upon my
body except my long whiskers. I had a sort of yellow complexion,
with a mild, decent nose, and I had no black eye or
brown under-brow, nor did I have any of the other vices of the
darkness which beset the human race. I had the appearance
of a young man, with a large, well-developed
fatigued nose, and a large, unruly mane of fine hair
on the back of my head. I had a pleasant, round, well-defined
cheek, and my beard was well trimmed.

Although I had no particular reason to suspect my savor,
as I had never seen him look, and I had never
heard of him marry, I was very much interested to see the
face I met. He was a tall, light-complexioned, well-built man
with black hair near to my shoulders, and his eyes were
large and brilliant. His features, like those of a handsome
young man, were well proportioned, and he had a great
smooth, well-defined figure. He was dressed in a light brown
cloak, and of an elegant build, with a large, well-trained
moustache, and handsome features.

I had met him once before by chance at a ball to which he
attended; he had introduced me to his friend, and I had eagerly
admired him. He seemed to me to have been a very handsome
young man indeed, and I was very much attracted by his
beautiful features, which, I suppose, he had borrowed from his
father.