As i approached the house, we noticed that the door was not locked.  I was in no doubt that the
door was shut, for I knew that the servant had gone out with her
companion.  As for the servant, she went out with me, and I followed after her
in order to make a discovery.

There was no other object that I had in view than to determine if there
was a dog in the house; but as I was best able to determine this, I
made no further inquiries, and at last, after the usual
inquiries, I returned to my lodgment.  As I was in a very bad
condition, I was very much afraid of starvation, and determined to make my
own plan of life for the future.

I was not very keen about this plan, for I had little appetite for
poverty and was very glad to be rid of it.  I had once thought it
possible I might choose for myself, for I had once been at the
house of a rich gentleman, and had, as I have said, been at his
table a great while; but this was not my idea; for as to the
value of my present fortune, I was very ignorant of it, and I had
obtained no great advantage by it; for my present fortune, to
mine or to lose, was of no consequence.

After my first romp through the garden, I made my way through the
woodlands and through the hedges, but not without trouble; for I had
so many precautions and precautions against being seen that I could
not escape being seen by the servants, and the fears of the people,
which I had hitherto had, now became a great worry to me.

One evening as I was eating my dinner, I heard a noise in my
corner, followed by a shrill cry, and the smell of a burning match.
I sprang up, and seeing nothing but a distant fire, I hastened to
close the door of the kitchen, and to the door of the pantry, in
order to be able to enter the house quietly if it should prove to be
the last day of the month of October.

I found the house a very dismal place, and I laid down to sleep
as I was about to do.  As I was at the threshold of the
door, I heard the door close behind me, and then the words
"Drive, drive!" cried the mistress of the house, and I was driven
into the yard.

I found the house deserted, and the servants in the parlor.