There was something behind me, but I did not know what it was. As it was at a great distance I could not see it, and I could see only a dark spot, which was very far off. The moon was thus as it was afterwards, but it was so dark that it was almost impossible to be sure that it was so. I did not dare to look round, for I knew that it was likely to be easy to be taken by surprise; I thought that this spot would be enough to make me forget that I had come to the
beside. The moon was now rising, and was rising very high up, so that it only barely
fell to the earth, and so was of no account to me. It was coming at a great speed, and
wanted to go straight to our ship, but we did not have any light. I was afraid of it, for I was
now standing on the edge of the precipice, and I did not know how to get
away. I knew that it was a place of great precipices, so that I could not be sure
that I could go down into them. Finally I got down, but it was not so easy as
I had feared; I was quite afraid of falling, and was afraid of falling
into the abyss. I was then in a deep gutter, and nearly lost my way. I dare say
that the earth was now also beginning to rise, and that I was going to fall
into a great abyss, where I could not be sure that I could hide. I had not
hastily got down, for I had only just been able to get down
before the abyss closed up round me. I came to a narrow place, which was
behind me, and stood on the edge. I saw something -- a little thing
with a yellow face, which was close to me. The little thing began to move
quickly, and then seemed to slow down, as it seemed to be following
me. It did not seem to make any sounds, so I followed it closely, and
thought that I was near in order to detect whether it was a person.

It was a person. It was a very large and heavy body, standing
straight out of the solid earth. It looked extremely large, and
awarmed me with a very great head, with a hairy face. The
great head seemed to have a huge head, and its arms looked
numerously to be grasping. The head was moving, and seemed to be
making some sort of gesture, but I could not be sure whether I was
being guided, or whether I was being guided by some force which did not
exist, so I followed it more closely. At the end of a great
time I came to a great cave, which was to my left. I could see
inside, and was not afraid to enter. I was in a great open space
about half a mile in length, and seemed to be looking out for a
place of great precipice, which I could not see. There
was nothing outside to my right; it was flat. I could not see any
thing, except for the dark and brilliant blue of the moon, and the
spots of fire which were rising to my feet. The moon was
rising higher, so that I could see that it was coming nearer. At that
time I did not know that I was standing on a precipice, and
could not see any deeper. The moon rose higher, and I could see a
little hole, which I was sure was the bottom of a great abyss,
which looked as though it had been sucked into the earth by the
living earth. The moon rose higher and higher, so that I could
see farther and farther. The moon was now very close to me. I did not
know whether I could get up; but there was an awful roar
from the depths of the earth, and I could only see it with the
eyes of a great reptile. I knew that it was not a man, for I could
not see any features beyond the eye of the great reptile.

I was about thirty feet in the air, and I was about to ascend
when I heard the sound of a landing. I immediately ran out, and
got down.